---
layout:     post
title:      Good News from Surgical Follow-up
date:       2019-02-20 14:00
author:     Ed Blackwood
summary:    Results from tumor pathology
categories: tamara
thumbnail:  heart
tags:
 - praying
 - tamara 
---

# Good News from surgical follow-up

Update from Tamara’s appointment on Tuesday with the neurosurgeon which she and Stephen reported to us. She had 21 stitches removed from her scalp. They did get the pathology back on the tumor. 80% of the original tumor was removed in the surgery (see the after and before side by side scan images above). It is officially a low-grade (benign) cartilage neoplasm consistent with chondroma. Those are less than 0.2% of all intercranial tumors. (And, from what little I have read, of intercranial chondromas, it is extremely rare that they occur other than at the base of the brain: “[Intracranial chondroma is a rare benign neoplasm that occurs most often at the skull base. In extremely rare instances, it arises from the dura mater of the convexity or from the falx cerebri](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24614393)” and “[Intracranial chondromas are rare, benign neoplasms representing only 0.2%–0.3% of neoplastic intracranial lesions. They commonly originate from the skull base but can infrequently arise from the falx, convexity dura, or ventricular ependyma](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1878875018322150)”). So, it appears that Tamara is the rarest of the rare! 

1% of the original tumor is stuck to the superior sagittal sinus and is too risky to remove. The other 19% might need to be removed – but the neurosurgeon is not recommending that be done soon. They will monitor what tumor remains with an MRI every 3 months for now. If another surgery is needed it could be 10 years off. Already brain is shifting back, so Tamara has much more brain space.

Tamara is nearly off her post surgery meds – hoping sleep comes easier once she is completely off. However, last night she had her best night's sleep post-surgery. She is permitted to do light activity - no bike riding or other high-risk activities for 6 months. She will still be off work for up to 3 months although perhaps, depending on recovery, could start back part time earlier than that.

So, pretty good news. And, we thank God for it. Of course The Good News is that Christ died for sinners such as us. And, in His mercy and grace, God brought us to believe that Good News. And, that is Good News always, even if doctor reports contain bad news.
