---
layout:     post
title:      Life with a wife with a brain tumor
date:       2019-02-18 12:00
author:     Stephen Noell
summary:    Stephen's reflections on the past few weeks
categories: tamara
thumbnail:  heart
tags:
 - praying
 - tamara 
---

# Life with a Wife with a Brain Tumor

First off, Tamara wanted me to say a big thank you to everyone who has been following this website and for all your kind comments and posts. They have been such a big encouragement to us during this difficult time! We have both been blown away by how many friends and acquaintances and friends of friends have been praying for us and posting comments of support. Thank you all! Tamara has been sleeping somewhat better the last few nights, but still has about five days of her steroids left, so please continue to pray for good sleep for her. I’ve also attached a few photos from her outings over the weekend: with her co-workers in the ER on Saturday and at church on Sunday.

After Tamara finished writing her post the other day, she asked me (Stephen) when I was going to write a post giving my perspective and feelings during the last week and looking forward to the coming weeks. At first, I didn’t really want to, but more and more people have been asking me about it, especially Tamara’s family…. there’s been a bit of a clamor in that department. I know it’s probably good for me to put my thoughts into writing, so I’m going to attempt to give my perspective.

Through all the events of the last two weeks, I have been extremely thankful for the book about suffering by Paul Tripp that I’ve been reading. In fact, the day before we learned about the tumor, I had finished the chapter that talks about the comfort of God’s presence with us in the midst of suffering. I have found those thoughts a profound comfort during the last two weeks. Knowing that the God of the universe understands our trials and has walked before us and has shared in the suffering of living as a human being in a fallen world is very comforting. And looking back, I know that God has heard and still hears my cries and hurts even though I barely know how to express them or process them.

There are a few scenes from the last two weeks that stick out especially in my mind. The first was the beginning of the whole event: on Monday, February 4, sitting in on a PhD defense, having a normal day as a graduate student, when my phone went off. I remember thinking it was odd for Tamara to call in the middle of the day. We’ve worked out a system where she usually texts and asks if she can call while I’m at work, since I have trouble switching focus when I’m on a roll with something. Then there were the freezing walk back to my building from the PhD defense in the sleet, the slow realization that the results of the MRI were not routine, and the funny feeling that it would be so ironic if Tamara had a brain tumor since she’s always joked about having one. When she said they actually had found a brain tumor, it was too foreign for my mind to grasp. My mind went into denial mode, so I tried to get back to work like it was a normal day, but my mind just wouldn’t operate normally. It was quite hard to focus on the role of marine bacteria in the global carbon cycle when my wife had just been diagnosed with a brain tumor…! Eventually, I was spared having to try any more when Tamara called again and asked if I could come home. I felt ridiculous; of course I should go home and comfort her! Feelings of inadequacy as a husband come easily to me, and this instance was only the first of several over the next week when I wished I’d done a better job of comforting my wife. The whirl of the rest of that day was a welcome distraction from the bewilderment that was overtaking my mind. The blur of messages, calls, a Christian Graduate Fellowship meeting, and dinner with our friends Zach and Ally helped numb the millions of questions racing through my head.

The next scene that stuck in my head was waiting in the doctor’s office on Tuesday, February 5, and looking out the window at the grey and rainy day outside that matched the cloudy future that we were facing. As the doctor explained the seriousness of the tumor and showed us the MRI, my heart sank. Any thoughts of surgery not being necessary were quickly pushed aside by utter bewilderment that my wife hadn’t been suffering any more symptoms. As we would ask many times over the coming days, how in the world could there be such a huge tumor in her head and we not know about it? The whole time – while the doctor was discussing what side of the head she was planning to go in on and the technical aspects of the parts of the brain she was hoping to avoid and the batteries of tests that Tamara needed to undergo – I just wanted to cry. I wanted to go back home and crawl under the sheets of our bed and hold my wife and cry with her. But there was too much to do: pre-surgery instructions to remember, forms to fill out, family to call, friends to message. There was even an hour-long stop in the ER so that Tamara could meet with her boss and tell all of her friends. Over the rest of that day and the next, there were family travels to coordinate, coordinators to coordinate, a guest room to set up, and a million other small tasks to keep us busy. I didn’t have a lot of time to let my emotions spill over; there was just too much to do.

Tamara, family, and friends kept asking me how I was doing, how I was feeling. I didn’t really know what to say, other than that I was coming down with a cold. It took so much mental and emotional effort to stay focused on the next step that I didn’t have the capacity to think about my own emotions. I wasn’t angry with God; I didn’t really see the point in being angry. I was more just comforted that God was there and that He would be there with me no matter what happened. In the moments when I had time to think, the possibility that Tamara would die did enter my thoughts. After the initial fear and bewilderment those thoughts brought, I would return to the certainty that God would go with me.

Fast forward to Wednesday, February 6 – the next waiting room of many – this time, waiting for Tamara to finish the battery of pre-operation tests she needed. While waiting, I read a fantasy book (gift from my sister Evelyn for my birthday), watched young mothers with their little babies waiting for their tests, and wondered if we would ever be in the same spot, with children of our own. More whirlwinds the rest of the day: Tamara getting her hair cut, Tamara’s family arriving, the chaos of having house guests and being exhausted and sick and just wanting to sleep.

There were many scenes from the next day, Thursday, February 7, that stuck with me, but the first one was leaving Tamara’s room before she was taken to the operating room. I felt profoundly sad, mostly because I wished I had spent more time with her. Our lives were changing in a mind-bewildering way in a very short time, and I didn’t have the time I wanted to hold her and comfort her. That day was a long one. There were a lot of distractions that helped keep me from breaking down in tears: board games to play, my brother to video call, family and friends to message, meals to eat, and so on. By the end of the day, I was running up and down the stairwell to deal with my nervous energy. Our hourly prayer and singing times were so comforting; God made His presence known to me in so many small ways. When the surgeon finally came up to see us, I mostly felt thankful that Tamara was okay, but the pent-up emotions of the day overflowed into a lot of tears (I get more emotional the more tired I get).

I had been prepared for seeing Tamara after surgery; I knew that she was going to be pale, that she was going to have a lot of lines, that she wouldn’t be able to talk very well. I wasn’t surprised when I saw her in that state, but it still broke my heart, and I didn’t know what to say to her. By that point, I was so on edge and tired of being away from her that I wanted to spend the night in her room; Tamara would have none of that, though, and even in her loopy state, she made it very clear that I should go home. So home I went, after sobbing into my mom’s shoulder after leaving Tamara behind in the ICU. I crawled into our cold bed at 2 AM to try to sleep. After a night of fitful sleep and waking dreams about surgeons and doctors, I woke up to an exhausted body and a voicemail from Tamara’s nurse at 2:30 AM that Tamara was awake and wanting me to come sit with her. That was heart-wrenching: knowing that I hadn’t been there for her when she wanted me. I was able to call and talk to her a bit, but with the confusion of my phone not working well and unclear scheduling for her MRI, I didn’t get to the hospital until she was just going in for her MRI. I had to wait until lunch time before I got to see her again. That also made me feel frustrated and sad that I hadn’t been there for her; the only comforting thought was that God was with her, even when I wasn’t.

The next day-and-a-half (Friday/Saturday) was trying for my patience: hours spent sitting next to Tamara, trying to help comfort her, trying to rest myself, sitting in the waiting room. I was so happy that she came home as soon as she did on Saturday, partly because it was good to be home with her, partly because the ICU waiting room was starting to feel claustrophobic, and partly because I was getting tired of having to get buzzed in every time I went to the ICU.

The final scene that has stuck with me was at church on Sunday, February 10, during communion. I had a hard time focusing on the sermon and the songs, but when our pastor brought up how Christ has shared in our suffering, when He wept over the death of His friend Lazarus, that caught my attention. The God of the universe became human and cried when His friend died. He wept over the brokenness of this world. That has been an enduring comfort to me over the past week.

The next week fell into a routine of helping Tamara with showering, getting her everything she needed to be comfortable, trying to make sure myself or someone else did the household chores, trying to get work done. I’m an introvert by nature, so the chaos of having family around and the necessity of caring for my recovering wife were hard (and still are). It was hard to try to work from home the first couple of days; it was (and still is) hard to switch my mind from “My wife has a brain tumor” to “How do marine bacteria fit into the carbon cycle?” The pressing necessity of presenting at a national conference in a week has helped get my mind back into gear.

When I look ahead, the anxiety of my upcoming conference trumps most other feelings right now. Not only will I be leaving my wife for the longest since we first got married, but I am also going to a new place (Puerto Rico) and new situations (never been to such a large conference before) and new challenges (never given a presentation at a conference before). Beyond the conference, the coming months and years hold a lot of unknowns. We still don’t know for certain what type of tumor it is; we don’t know how fast it’s going to grow back (or if it will). We don’t know how often (or if) Tamara will have to have more MRIs and surgeries. It’s rather scary when I try to fit all that in with the comfortable life that I had been imagining for us. But as Paul Tripp talks about in his book, we like to tell ourselves the lie that we won’t face suffering in our lives. In this broken and fallen world, it’s more a question of when and how suffering is going to come. I can take great comfort knowing that this world is not all there is and that Tamara’s suffering and brain tumors will come to an end one day. For now, we both continue to trust in Christ and His strength, and we give thanks every day for the amazing community of family and friends that He has given us and for how all of you have taken care of us.
