---
layout:     post
title:      Big Day
date:       2019-02-18 14:00
author:     Tamara Noell
summary:    Tamara's big day
categories: tamara
thumbnail:  heart
tags:
 - praying
 - tamara 
---

# Big Day

Hi friends,

Gah! I just wrote a whole big blog post this morning and it deleted! :-( That's okay. Let’s try again before I head back to bed for a little bit...

I was awake at 4am, so I decided to get up and come and sit in my big recliner and read my 
Bible, pray, and sing. That was my normal routine before surgery – I just have more time for it now! I am enjoying the quiet mornings, sitting beside our little guinea pig Harry (Harrison Lachlan Noell), spending time with the Lord and replying to messages from friends, and occasionally talking with friends in different time zones on the phone. Last night, I had pretty bad heart burn and itchiness, so that was frustrating. But overall I did sleep a little better. Thanks for your prayers!

Yesterday I woke up at 5am and got up at 6am. At 7am when S got up, I was full of beans and ready to go! Yesterday I was feeling very easily frustrated, probably because of lack of sleep and because I am still a sinner post-brain tumor surgery! After making breaky for S and me and making his lunch for his second day back at work, I was exhausted and dizzy and took a nap in my recliner. My mother and sister-in-law Evelyn fought with our washing machine all day to get it to work and drain properly! In the light of eternity, it’s not a big deal, but its problems definitely added to my frustration! Mum vacuumed for us, which was lovely! After my nap, I wrote an email to our CEO to express thanks for my hospital stay. It was nice to write my story out, and Evelyn edited it for me! Thank you! I had some paperwork for work to fill out, and then I had another good long nap. Mum made me lunch, and then Evelyn set me up in the shower. I finally got out of my PJs at 2:30. Even without recovering from a brain tumor, PJ days are good ones. J

At 3pm, we took off to run some errands. Evelyn got our groceries from Winco (thank you!!), while, wearing my new guinea pig socks from Stephen’s brother Philip and sister-in-law Alyson, mum and I went to PetCo to get Harry some bedding and hay. After getting petrol, we met S downtown and tried to get local Benny’s Donuts. Turned out a LOT of things are closed in Corvallis on Mondays. So we headed to our favourite brewpub, Block 15, and shared their amazing rosemary fries, a dessert, and two drinks! S and I went to Block 15 on our first date, and the waitress who served us that night was there yesterday, so we caught up with her.

(For those of you who don’t know, S and I started dating in July 2016 at a church conference, but I left to go back to Australia the day the conference ended (two days after we “officially” got together). We Skyped and wrote letters and emails for 4 months before I came to visit in December 2016, when we had our first official “date” – at Block 15. It was a nice to be able to tell a little of that story to our lovely waitress. J )

After Block 15, mum, S, and I headed to our friends Zach and Ally’s for our Christian Graduate Group potluck dinner and Bible study (CGF – S is the president of this group). It was nice to see them all, especially because they were the first friends with whom we shared in person the news of my brain tumor. Maria, my sister from Melbourne, was supposed to get the shuttle from Portland to Corvallis yesterday afternoon, but she had a delayed flight, so she couldn’t get in until 6:45pm. She came right to CGF! It is soooooo lovely to have my dear sister here!

When we got home, she gave me tons of letters and a few sweet presents from church friends in Australia. It was so heart-warming to read them all! Our card wall is very full! One of our friends, the Nelsons, put this very encouraging verse in:

“The Lord your God is with you,
    the Mighty Warrior who saves.
He will take great delight in you;
    in his love he will no longer rebuke you,
    but will rejoice over you with singing.”
- Zephaniah 3:17

Thank you all, dear friends in Australia, for your kind words of encouragement! I am truly blessed to have such a good church family, who, even after I’ve been away almost 2 years, still loves Stephen and me so much!

Evelyn leaves to go back to Indiana and her husband today. Thank you, Scott, for loaning her too us! She’s been such a delight to have in our home (thank you, neighbour, Aunt Terri for letting her sleep at your place!) and so very helpful with food, cleaning, laundry, taking pictures and updating the blog, arranging flowers, and just being a good friend! We love you so much, Evelyn!

Today, at 11:30 am, I have my first appointment post-surgery with Dr. Abrams. I get my stitches out, and we’re bringing a page of questions to ask. So stay tuned for more info (and maybe some pictures) about that soon!

Thank you for loving us and supporting us! We love you all!
<3 T&S

P.S. Stephen knows I LOVED his post and love him very much! Thank you all for your kind words of encouragement for him! I am truly blessed by this godly man God has given me!
